
This folder contains data and code for "Comparative analysis of the molecular starvation response of Southern Ocean copepods" by Berger et al. (2023) (https://doi.org/10.1101/2023.08.17.553703). There are sub-folders for differential expression/WGCNA analyses, comparative analyses (including selection/phylogenetic analyses), and physiology (lipids and enzyme activity). 

The main intermediate results file is “df_060322_Annotated.csv”. This file contains detailed information for each gene in both species with results from the starvation experiments, including expression data, Orthogroup assignments, and BLAST annotations. “df_Ship_060322_Annotated.csv” contains the same information, except with fold-change/expression data from the Field vs. ship comparison. These files are used as input for “Comparative_Analyses.Rmd”, which contains the bulk of the comparative analyses presented in the paper. 

For variance of gene expression analysis: <br>
“Acutus_Field_Input.csv” and “Prop_Field_Input.csv” contain raw counts, library sizes, and lengths for each gene and field sample. These files are used as input for “Overdisp_HPC_Acutus/Prop.R”, which fit negative binomial models to calculate overdispersion (as described in the Methods and Fair et al., 2020 (https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.59929) and write the files “Acutus/Prop_Overdisp_Estimates_Field.csv”. These files are then used as input for “OverDisp_processing.R”, which calculates dispersion as the residual of a regression of overdispersion against mean expression, and writes the files “Acutus/Prop_Field_Disp.csv”. These values of dispersion are the values used in “df_060322_Annotated.csv” and analyzed within “Comparative_Analyses.Rmd”. 

For dN/dS (codeml) analyses: <br>
"codeml_N0.csv", "codeml_N1.csv", "codeml_output_TAG_N0.txt", and "codeml_ouput_TAG_N1.txt" contain the raw codeml outputs with log-likelihoods and omega estimates for the various models. These files are processed within "Comparative_Analyses.Rmd" to produce the intermediate files ""codeml_ForeBack_N0.csv" and "codeml_ForeBack_N1.csv", which are used to produce figures and analyses comapring omega between lineages. "N0_codeml_MG94.csv" and "N1_codeml_MG94.csv" contain the results of the branch-level omega estimates in C. acutus and C. propinquus. These are also analyzed in "Comparative_Analyses.Rmd."
